In this video we're gonna go ahead and
download and install the JDK which is
the Java development kit which contains
the software to be able to run programs
in this course. Now if you're
running on a Mac or a Linux machine you
want to check out a specific video that
we've created in this section of the
course for those operating systems the
reason is the steps are slightly
different for each platform so this is
the windows video so if you're on
Windows unico start by going to Java dot
IO cool calm they'll bring into a page
from Oracle which are now the owners of
the Java product when I come over here
under technologies and click on Java SE
and once that page loads come over here
and click on downloads and finally once
we get to that page there's this little
icon here this little word image and
it'll say Java platform JDK and a number
here now it's highly likely that this
number will change in the future because
Oracle release at regular intervals
updates to the Java development kit so
if you've got a later number than that
that's fine just click on the graphic
there and that'll take you to the
download page where we can actually
download the software now what we need
to do is determine whether your computer
is of 32 or is running a 32 or 64-bit
version of Windows the reason for that
is that there's two versions of the JDK
available you can see here windows x86
and Windows x64 so what that means is
windows x86 is for computers running a
32-bit version of Windows and Windows
x64 is the 64-bit version of Windows so
to find out which version you're running
on your computer you basically want to
get into control panel or from Windows
10 it's settings so I'm going to come
down here I've clicked on the start icon
click on settings once you get into the
control panel or in my case windows
settings click on system and then it's
an option down here for about that's
certainly what it is for Windows 10 it
might be slightly different for older
versions of Windows but there's an
option on all versions of Windows to
tell you what version of Windows you're
running and here on a system type you
can see that it says 64-bit operating
system so ignore this part of the
right where it says x64 based processor
because it is possible confusingly to
have a 64-bit processor but to be
running a 32-bit version of the Windows
operating system
so the bit the important bit here is to
the left where it says 64-bit operating
system that tells me there that I'm
running a 64-bit version of the
operating system and I can now choose my
download the only other option that
would come up would be a 32-bit version
and once you know that you can close
that screen down come back to the page
that we loaded previously and choose the
relevant version now before they allow
you to download you need to click on
accept license agreement this little
radio button that you saw me click and
then we need to choose the version so a
32-bit version that would be the windows
x86 version in my case 64 million 64-bit
version or 64-bit edition of Windows so
I'm going to click on that little option
there for me
so you'll choose whichever one is
appropriate and I'm going to click on
run to elect our windows run this so
that we can go ahead and install it so
I'll just fast forward this while it
continues so that completes the Download
okay so I've gone ahead and the download
is finished and it started because I
selected it to run now if he didn't
select run you might have to double
click the download a program to start it
but in any event it should start I'm
going to close in the browser cuz we no
longer need it and you get a process
like this an installation process that
we can actually go through so come
through here now I can click on next
now you may actually need to know this
letter in the course so just say keep to
the back your mind or perhaps write down
the area or the path that this software
has been installed in you can see in my
case it's going to be installed in C
colon backslash Program Files backslash
Java and then this number will relate to
the version that you downloaded the
important part is Program Files slash
Java so you may need may or may not need
that later in the course but I have a
make a mental note of that or write it
down so you know click on next we don't
need to change any options there well it
do its thing and install
next thing it does its installed the JDK
but it's also wants to install the JRE
JRE stands for the Java Runtime Edition
and you do need to have both things on
your computer in order to be able to use
Java so we're going to just click on next
noting that that directory the C colon
backslash program files slash Java so
it's actually putting it in a different
subfolder and again you may need that
too later in the course click on next
and let it do its thing again
all right so at this point so you can
see that it's come up and said the java
SE development kit 8 update and then the
number has been successfully installed
so we're actually done so I'm click on
close and I'm going to finish the video
here let's move on to the next one.